
_SirMail_ is a _IMAP_ mail client. The current version has a number of
rough edges, but it is quite useful to the authors.

Configuration is manual, via S-expressions, as described below.

Caveat: All marks (used for deletion and copying) are local to the
client. SirMail doesn't use the \Deleted IMAP flag until it is ready
to delete marked messages. Also, it pays no attention to \Deleted
flags when synchronizing. However, SirMail removes a \Delete flags
from a mailbox before purging marked messages. This prevents SirMail
from accidentally removing messages that you didn't mark within
SirMail (on the local machine).

------------------------------------------------------------

To configure sirmail, create a .sirmail file in (find-system-path 'pref-dir).
It should be, when read (not evaluated):

  (list-of (list symbol TST))

where each symbol specifies a configuration parameter and the
corresponding TST specifies the value that parameter maps to.

Here's an example content for .sirmail:

 ((username "mflatt")
  (password "notreal")
  (imap-server "mailhub.cs.utah.edu")
  (local "~/SirMail")
  (mail-from "Matthew Flatt <mflatt@cs.utah.edu>")
  (smtp-server "mail")
  (default-to-domain "cs.utah.edu")
  (save-sent "~/SentMail")
  (biff-delay-seconds 60)
  (self-addresses ("mflatt@cs.utah.edu" "mflatt@cs.rice.edu" "mflatt@rice.edu"))
  (aliases (("robby" "robby@rice.edu")
            ("plt-scheme" "plt-scheme@flux.cs.utah.edu")))
  (aliases-file "~/.sirmail.aliases"))

The required configuration parameters are:

  - imap-server: a string naming the imap server host

  - username: a string naming the user

  - local: pathname of an existing directory where sirmail stores the
    downloaded messages.

  - mail-from: the user's e-mail address

  - smtp-servers or smtp-server: former is a list of strings naming
    smtp server hosts, latter is a string naming a single smtp server
    host.

The optional preferences are:

  - default-to-domain: appended to non-aliased destination addresses
    that don't include a domain.

  - save-sent: (union #f string) specifing which directory outgoing
    messages should be saved in (if not present or #f, messages will not
    be saved).

  - aliases: should be of the form:

      (list-of (list string (union string (list-of string))))

    specifing a mapping from names to one or more email
    addresses. These names can be used in the "To", "cc", or "bcc"
    headers of your email address.

    Aliases are expanded recursively.

  - aliases file: string, specifies a filename that contains more
    alises in the same form as the aliases tag.

  - imap-server-port: (union number #f), when number specifies the
    port to connect to for the imap server.

  - self-addresses: a list of strings naming your email addresses 
    so followups do not go to yourself.

  - password: which should map to a string containing the imap password

  - auto-file: 

      (list-of (list mailbox-name (list-of (list field regexp))))
    
    specifies where messages should be autofiled based on regular
    expression matching of various headers in the email. For any
    email, if it has a header named `field' that mathces `regexp', it
    is filed into `mailbox-name'.

  - biff-delay: (union #f number); when number specifies how long
    between sirmail waits before polling the mailbox. Only polls when
    connected.

  - sort-by: (union #f 'date 'subject 'from 'id); specifies the
    initial storting of opened mailboxes. 
    'id indicates sorting by order received and #f means no sorting.
    These should produce the same ordering, but 'id is probably a bit slower.

  - root-mailbox-folder: a string naming a mailbox to use as the root
    in the mailbox folder list window. If this option is #f or not
    provided, the reader window will not contain the "Show Folders
    Window" menu.

  - message-fields: a list of strings naming header fields to show (in
    order) when reading a message. The default is
          ("From" "To" "CC" "Subject" "Date" "X-Mailer")

  - show-urls: (union 'on 'off), defaults to 'on
    If this is 'on, it hilights urls in the text. Clicking on the
    urls will open a web browser, pointing it at that url.

-------------------------------------------------------------------

The format of the mailboxes file is a list of entries, where each
entry is a list of at least two elements:

 The first element is the local directory for the mailbox's messages.

 The second element is the mailbox name for the IMAP server. 

 The rest are overriding options. For example, there's no easy way to
 move my Rice mailboxes to Utah, so I just access them from Rice on the
 rare occasions when I need them. For each of my Rice mailboxes, the
 "mailboxes" entry contains all the configuration options that apply to
 Rice. Nothing in SirMail ever writes new options into "mailboxes"; I
 add them by hand, and SirMail preserves them. 

The overidding-options feature was a quick hack for what I needed, and
it should be replaced eventually. There's a lot of duplication of
information in the current format.
