
(make-mred-launcher args dest) - Creates the launcher `dest'. The 
   `dest' executeable (for the current OS platform) will start 
   MrEd with the command-line arguments specified as strings in 
   the list `args'. Extra arguments passed to the launcher at 
   run-time will be appended (modulo special X flag handling, as
   described below) to this list and passed on to MrEd.

   `make-mred-launcher' transforms `args' as necessary to avoid
   mutations caused by passing the strings through the
   platform-specific launching mechanism (e.g, as sh arguments), so
   the strings in `flags' arrive to MrEd intact.

   For X Windows, the script created by `make-mred-launcher'
   detects and handles X Windows flags specially when they
   appear as the initial arguments to the script. Instead
   of appending these arguments to the end of `args', they
   are spliced in after any `--pre' or X Windows flags
   already listed listed in `args'. The remaining arguments (i.e.,
   all script flags and arguments after the last X Windows flag
   or argument) are then appended after the spliced `args'.

(make-mzscheme-launcher args dest) - Same as `make-mred-launcher',
   but for starting MzScheme. (No special X windows handling.)


(make-mred-program-launcher collection dest) - Calls
   `make-mred-launcher' with arguments that start the MrEd program
   implemednted by `collection': (list "-A" collection "--").    

(make-mzscheme-program-launcher file collection dest) - Calls
   `make-mzscheme-launcher' with arguments that start the MzScheme
   program implemented by `file' in `collection': (list "-mvL-"
   file collection)


(mred-program-launcher-path name) returns a pathname for an
   executable in the current PLT home directory called `name'.
   For Windows, the ".exe" suffix is automatically appended
   to `name', and for X Windows `name' is changed to lowercase
   and whitespace is changed to `-'.

(mzscheme-program-launcher-path name) returns the same pathname
   as (mred-program-launcher-path name).


(install-mred-program-launcher collection name) - Calls
   `make-mred-launcher' with the destintation returned
   by (mred-program-launcher-path name).

(install-mzscheme-program-launcher file collection name) - Calls
   `make-mzscheme-launcher' with the destintation returned
   by (mzscheme-program-launcher-path name).
