_MzCOM_
=======

This directory contains the files for MzCOM, a COM 
class wrapper for MzScheme.

The code is in the file mzcom.dll.  During normal
installation of MzCOM from the file mzcom.plt, the
mzcom.dll is registered automatically.  You can 
move the .dll to whatever location you like, but
you'll need to re-register it.  From the command
line, run

  REGSVR32 mzcom.dll

Under Windows 95/98, REGSVR32 is in the Windows 
System directory.  Under Windows NT/2000, REGSVR32
is in the directory WINNT\System32.  If you move 
mzcom.dll, you'll also need to set the Windows 
environment variables PLTHOME or PLTCOLLECTS for 
MzCOM to find collections.

Loading MzCOM
-------------

To load a COM object, COM hosts require a COM class 
name or a ProgID.  MzCOM has the class name 
"MzObj Class" and the ProgID "MzCOM.MzObj.<version>",
where <version> is the version number, such as 102.

In the Visual BASIC environment, from the menu 
Project|References, check "MzCOM Type Library".  
In your code, declare a variable, then assign to it:

  DIM schemeObject as MzObj
  SET schemeObject as NEW MzObj

Using PLT's MysterX 

  http://www.cs.rice.edu/CS/PLT/packages/mysterx/

you can load MzCOM with either

  (cocreate-instance-from-coclass "MzObj Class")

or

  (cocreate-instance-from-progid "MzCOM.MzObj.<version>")

Consult your documentation for loading MzCOM into other
COM environments.  MzCOM is compiled as a "dual-mode"
class, meaning its methods may be called directly or by
using OLE Automation.

Methods
-------

MzCOM has two methods.

> About() 

About() takes no arguments and displays an informational 
dialog.

> Eval()

Eval() takes and returns BSTR's (BASIC strings).  The
returned value is the result of evaluating the input
expression, formatted as a string.  The input string
may contain several S-expressions.  The embedded MzScheme
updates its environment with each evaluation.  Therefore,
it is possible to define procedures in a call to 
Eval(), and use the procedures in subsequent calls.

Events
------

MzCOM has a single event.

> Error()

The Error() event is passed a BSTR (BASIC string)
that explains the error.  

Collections
-----------

If mzcom.dll is installed to its default location,
MzCOM is able to find other PLT collections. 
When setting up the collection paths, MzCOM adds 
the variable

> mzcom-dll

to the global environment.  That variable is bound 
to a string containing the full pathname for mzcom.dll.

If mzcom.dll is moved to another location, you should 
set either the PLTHOME or PLTCOLLECTS environment 
variables before loading MzCOM.

Evaluation thread
-----------------

The MzScheme evaluator runs in a Win32 thread created
when MzCOM is loaded.  If an expression kills the 
primary MzScheme thread, as in 

  (kill-thread (current-thread))

then the evaluator Win32 thread is also killed.  
When that happens, subsequent calls to Eval() will fail.

Limitations
-----------

You can load at most one MzCOM object per Win32 process.
If you try to load more than one, a crash is likely.

Contact us
----------

If you need more information on using MzCOM, please 
contact us at scheme@cs.rice.edu.

Acknowledgements
----------------

MzCOM was developed in response to a query by 
Andre Van Meulebrouck.  Andre also did extensive 
testing with Visual BASIC.
